um first up on the lineup is Kia coyler
who is a writer artist Gardener amateur
astronomer organizer and developer
interested in how cultural narratives
and Technologies shape their use since
2017 she has led strategy at gnosis
developing decentralized infrastructure
for web 3. now she focuses on building
zodiac a collection of tools built
according to an open standard for
decentralized autonomous organizations
or Dows she also contributes to other
internet research group and sits on the
board of regen Foundation today Kia
cortler presents her pre-history of dows
so anybody new to the crypto space we're
going to walk you through uh from the
beginning to now and with that I will
turn it over to Kiev
hey I'm Kia curtler and my talk is on a
pre-history of dials cooperatives gaming
guilds and the networks to come
you can find me on Twitter at Kia
crutler and our team at nurses guilds
foreign
stands for decentralized autonomous
organization
it comes from imagining how features of
decentralized Technology like Global
digital assets censorship resistance and
automated actions will change how
organizations operate
Jazz today could also be described as
Internet native organizations
the term Dow first appeared in the
ethereum blockchain community in 2014.
the terms like decentralized autonomous
Corporation or decentralized autonomous
company DAC
circulated in the Bitcoin space prior
the first experiment under the term's
name called Lido launched as a
decentralized funding organization which
raised over 150 million equivalent ether
standard of currency to its code in
2016.
the experiment proves short-lived
however and the doubt was hacked one
month after launch
and despite this a lot more experiments
have gone on in the Dow space since
and I would argue that while the term
Dao is new the ideas behind it are
you can see this in the form of Networks
a popular term among think tanks of the
20th century
and seen in this 1995 report tribes
institutions markets networks by David
renfelt and published by the Rand
Corporation
the report presents four types of
organizational forms through which
Humanity has supposedly progressed
and key to this framework is not the
idea that one organizational former
places the next but rather that it both
supplements and curtails the one that
preceded it
and of relevance for Dao's networks in
the report have a key distinguishing
feature from the organizational forms
that precede them
they're described as
multi-organizational meaning they
connect multiple organizations
and they facilitate the growth of
distributed web-like Global Enterprises
and increasingly so-called virtual
corporations
and neither public nor private the
primary domain of multi-organizational
networks is a third autonomous social
sector identified in the report as civil
society
and I like to bring up this report in
the context of Dao's web 3 and internet
native organization discourse because I
think that the discourse today whether
knowing or not inherits a lot from
reports like the one published by Rand
and ran was a non-profit Think Tank
established or is a non-profit Think
Tank established in 1948 that went on to
advise the U.S military and government
and so a lot of the discourse around
internet native organization inherits a
type often of Western liberalism as well
as a type of soft power that other civil
society organizational forms would go on
to export in the decades following the
90s
and I'm of the belief that the more you
recognize the lineage the easier it
becomes to change
and in this vein I would say that with
the report's emphasis on civil society's
three-letter acronyms for organizations
ngos npos and pbos and feature one
appears naturally missing Taos
so does today 1000 2021
does I would offer a working definition
might be best described as voluntary
associations with the operating
principles of digital cooperativism
and I say cooperativism here in the
sense that dials do not Embrace
necessarily an organizational form or
legal structure that looks like
traditional cooperatives but rather that
they Embrace cooperativism more as a
protocol
a set of economic relations between the
members that prioritize co-ownership
and as voluntary associations they are
across jurisdictional way for strangers
friends or unlikely allies to
pseudonymously come together towards
shared goals
usually supported by a token model
incentives and governance held in common
and it's important to keep in mind that
dials are not reducible to technical
protocols for governance or the software
that they use but rather there are
communities that coordinate through
Collective vibes
and today the Dow landscape is blooming
with a bunch of different categories of
dials highlighted by Cooper Turley such
as protocol Dao's which Steward the
development of decentralized software
there are service styles that offer
things like freelance work there's
investment in Grant styles that
distribute funds and there's collectors
dowels that collect artworks as well as
media dials that seek to be a new type
of media Studio
and while not reducible to the software
it uses many joke today that Dao's are
simply a group chat in a bank account
and to give some specific instances of
what this looks like most often dials
today are comprised of a Discord server
which is a big multi-channel chat room
usually organized by topic
and a multi-sig often a notice a safe
multi-sig
and multi-signature accounts you can
think of kind of like
um traditional joint bank accounts
except you can create them online
usually within a couple of minutes
synonymously across jurisdictions with
your friends
and here's a screenshot of a multi-stig
by a popular grants program in the
blockchain space
and this grants program is controlled by
four out of six owners this means
multi-sig kind of directly translates to
multi-signature multiple signers have to
confirm a transaction in order for it to
go through in this case 4 out of six
although every account can set it custom
and while deceptively simple as a piece
of software multi-cigs have become
really important for adults to set up
and get started quickly as a group that
wants to hold Assets in common
and this is a screenshot of the please
or down multisig pleaser Dow is an art
collector down
and they've also issued an internal
governance token as well as an external
token for fractionalization of ownership
of the works that allows those who to
contribute to the Dow basically to vote
on which artworks they will acquire next
and I think what's most interesting from
from pleaser down collector does in
general from an Arts institutional
perspective is that they often invite
the artists they collect to become
members of the down turn
which basically dissolves the usual
distinctions between artists colors and
collectors
and also because most Styles represent
governance rights through a token
sometimes you could say token's Trojan
Horse principles of co-ownership so of
cooperatives directly into highly
financialized spaces
and while I think tokenization is far
from the answer to the social media web
2 woes I would say that I think for jazz
with the mission of economic value
creation a token becomes a useful
mechanism on three fronts bootstrapping
initial funding Distributing governance
white rights widely and granularly as
well as aligning an ecosystem of daos so
not only one organization but many
and in the slide
and I would say since the space um It's
relatively new there are very few um
kind of guiding principles or Norms
around value creation
I would offer one to say that web3
applications could aim to introduce
value in relations which have been
historically denied it like labor and
environment rather than creating new
financialized relations
this is where jobs could learn much from
cooperatives
and cooperatives are Enterprises managed
and owned by their members
and the 1844 Rossdale principles for
cooperatives which are still embraced
and used by cooperatives today outline a
few key principles by which they operate
so these include volunteering open
membership member economic participation
as well as things like cooperation among
cooperatives
and while many dials might not draft
this list I would also counter that many
could have easily written the similar
list of values today
and perhaps Ridaz must strongly
intersect with the blockchain space with
the Cooperative space is through ideas
like Nathan Schneider's exits community
um so in a 2019 post he details a third
path so startups rather than giving the
initial IPO or a corporate acquisition
can choose a third way and share what
they've created with the people who
value it most
in the case of a social media platform
this could be giving co-ownership to its
users as well as governance rights about
how the platform develops
and in a great paper called questioning
worker cooperatives with blockchain
technology
three dilemmas Cooperative space today
these relate to basically raising
initial funds International governance
as they scale across borders and face
bureaucratic hurdles and also alignment
both bureaucratic and cultural coherence
as cooperatives increase in size
and definitely not the Panacea it's
Cooperative dilemmas but one potential
solution certain dowel patterns
highlighted before related to
bootstrapping initial funding widely
Distributing governance rights and
aligning not only one organization but
many could be abuse
Das also could learn from cooperatives
and their emphasis on long-termism so
long-term patterns about how economic
assets should be held as well as the
well-being of the members and the
environment they've participate in
Styles can also learn from gaming guilds
so in massively multiplayer online games
MMOs players are mostly free to set
their own goals Loosely Guided by the
open Game World narrative
refer to nmo as broadly as guilds Clans
or alliances these groups average in
size between 40 to 150 participants
though they can go up to a thousand in
size
and their goals could include defeating
difficult enemies or constructing useful
tools basically anything that's usually
out of the scope of one player acting
alone
this includes Mega projects like
constructing a Titan class warship in
Eve online
and what Fields have realized is that
it's really important for the same
players to work together again because
they usually have characters with
complementary skill sets as well as
established patterns of cooperation
and key to Guild members working
together again is the distribution of
loot or the distribution of resources
and its perceived fairness
so loot our in-game items usually
dropped after a successful mission
and to deal with their distribution many
guilds have established different
systems for keeping track of
participation
one of the most robust and resilient is
the 1999 system Dragon kill points which
has evolved greatly since and is used in
many game servers today
and you could say that dkp act as a
private money system separate from any
existing currency in the game world and
they're distributed to Guild members
based on their participation and rates
and then Guild members can in turn spend
these participation points or private
money in exchange for loot items in a
transparent manner
and out of the scope of this talk
there's a great paper called Dragon kill
points a summary white paper by
castronova in Fairfield that delves into
one World of Warcraft servers dkp system
it's absolutely fantastic
and I would say that these kind of Guild
patterns of dragon kill coins or dkp as
well as autonomous dispute resolution so
ways to resolve dispute between Guild
members without resorting to traditional
legal forms usually as well as the
market allocation of publicly owned
Goods as you see in many gkp systems
could greatly inform several Dow
dilemmas today
so at the moment a lot of dials are
really struggling with how to adequately
and considerately and meaningfully track
reputation participation and
contribution among their members in that
turn they struggle to distribute
resources fairly
by looking towards systems like dkp does
could also increase trust and and kind
of also show that
often with the kind of meme around
blockchain technology being trustless it
overshadows the fact that teams often
working as smaller teams within Dows
need to work together repeatedly and
develop develop a level of coherence and
Trust
I think dolls can also learn um from
gaming guilds with particular insights
raised by researcher Joshua citarella
but many dkp systems resemble a form of
Market socialism
and which goods are publicly owned but
allocated by markets
and I think Shadow economics could be an
out term for like this for when a group
operates through an economic form it
would not be likely to label itself as
so this is Dallas as digital
cooperatives and gaming guilds as Market
socialism as many dials would might not
explicitly embrace the label of
cooperatives and maybe Gamers might not
explicitly call themselves Market
socialists they still engage in economic
practices which resemble these forms
and as the blockchain Socialist writes
um we should be building organizing
platforms owned by users and workers
where it doesn't matter what that
someone tweets something you might
disagree with but whether or not they
are helping us reach concrete political
objectives
and hear whether you disagree with a
Twitter handle or otherwise douse holds
some opportunity
and I think endows ambiguity and their
kind of a historicity There's an
opportunity for a collaboration across
existing ideologies and polarization
divides
um and also on the flip term uh of this
like a huge opportunity for
experimentation with different economic
practices we also face the real
possibility that dials are Cooperative
or better or worse for different ends at
the moment and this is why I really
encourage more people to get involved in
this space now when it's a little bit of
Upstream of these experimentation
impacts
and in terms of dollars to come and
their impacts does after 2021.
so I think that does will not be the
uniformly non-hierarchical network so
imagine although they will have pockets
of flat hierarchies
instead I think Dows will coordinate
across different levels of coherence and
Trust
and I could roughly sketch out three
layers of a gel there would be a token
and then teams guilds and squads
represented by token ownership that
often work together on missions
milestones and raids are a larger scale
Public Works that are financed by token
ownership
and from these layers something like a
hierarchical network emerges meaning an
organization that possesses the ability
to be ranked in multiple ways
so from the perspective of one Dao such
as daubi in a given ecosystem of Dallas
you could see a series of teams and
goals and from another dial dasi's
perspective we could see overlapping
goals and teams collaborating towards
similar ends with a different hierarchy
emerges
and because programmable tokens can be
distributed in a more granular way to
teams like such one of the promises of
Dao's that they've yet to deliver on but
still people kind of hold as something
like a Holy Grail or an ideological
endpoint is that because they can be
distributed in a more granular way than
traditional corporate interests
memberships or shares
the possibility for a new type of token
holder company formation comes to the
fore which can incorporate incorporate
greater practical knowledge in
governance without increasing
transaction costs
or in other words um decreasing
organizational efficiency
and this idea of incorporating greater
practical knowledge or tacit knowledge
and governance I think is most clearly
shown by the regen Network which is a
public blockchain for ecosystem services
that has set aside 30 of their tokens
for land stewards climate scientists and
Indigenous peoples to take part in
managing the value the network produces
as well as governance of the protocol in
the long term and that way you get
literally on the ground stakeholders
involved in your governance process over
the long-term kind of economic outcomes
of their field
and for this reason it's important to
look Beyond token governance so while
tokens can distribute governance rights
we should also move Beyond token voting
as the first solution to decision making
instead we can look to Identity systems
like proof of personhood systems proof
of participation
retroactive public goods funding as well
as other mechanisms to compat vote
combat vote buying or other issues
I would also offer that tokens are in
some sense a new form of digital object
that will take time to establish Norms
around
so these won't always look like
traditional um corporate shareholders
stakeholder rights and they won't always
look like economic assets but instead
will become a more programmable form of
governance that highlights opportunities
that we've yet to articulate but will
soon
and so it's some and I would also say
here
um that because tokens are primarily
built worlds around speculation exit
many are not keen to get involved with
the space but I would also say that as
new types of tokens emerge they will
build worlds around entrance too
attaching to how physical resources are
governed
and in summary gamer guilds cooperatives
using software and group chats often
dials look at these forms and say oh my
God is this entirely new organizational
forum and the history of human
civilization
and while it's not today I would
actually offer that it potentially could
be
so I think in the networks to come
they're digital Primacy meaning that
they initially organize online and also
manage digital assets primarily allow
some not to take seriously the fact that
things like Cooperative principles plus
gaming guilds and odd imaginaries like
daos present an emerging organizational
form with legitimate political relevance
and why I think it's important to give
things like Dao's political relevance
today is because we don't want those on
the other side of the digital divide to
suddenly realize that they haven't been
included in stakeholders when this does
become a legitimate political form or
really operationalizes in mainstream
practice and that's why we should
actively cultivate more and more
stakeholders in these organizations
while they're still young
and I would offer one kind of
speculative form through which different
organizations and Dolls Could
participate in the political sphere and
transform towards more impactful ends
for better or worse once again
and I'll quickly read a paragraph from
my essay by the same name a prehistory
of Dallas towards the speculative end
so to call attention to the chimerics
terms failings and seriousness many
return to its misnomer
the am Dao does not live up to its
autonomous reference
and even though the term Dow remains
poetically correct we could propose an
occasional replacement decentralized
Avatar organizations
such organizations would take their
political Stakes both lightly and
heavily
as Audrey Tang notes the Davis of Avatar
politicians are already here
Avatar politicians are ritual beings
that represent rally and Advocate on
behalf of political platforms and when
automation increases they may even spawn
their own political platforms
a decentralized avatar organization
would recognize the coming ritual
zeitgeist
this could look like collectively
managed cyborg glycolo Michaela or an
entire environment shaped by members
like trust moving castles
and decentralized Avatar organizations
will have collectively developed
interoperable game worlds engines or
virtual being mascots at their core
which co-create the culture around which
their members organize
and as is the case in this example in
speculation with massively multiplayer
online games I would say that dials are
less technical protocols for governance
and more high-stakes Game World Center
weave and we should treat them as such
because we may see things like dial
versus pack or political action
committee so a fundraising committee for
political candidates or party lines in
the United States as soon as 2024 before
them
for this reason we must remember that we
need to aim not only for code but we
should aim for rough consensus and
running worlds
thanks and you can find this talk and
hopefully a longer more nuanced essay
form at our blog noses guild.mira.xyz as
well as some more info about the Dow
tools that we work on at nurses Guild
everybody welcome back
um I'm joined here today by executive
director of gray area Barry through and
Kia cortler who just walked us through a
pre-history of dows
um thank you so much for that
presentation Kia it was so informative
and I think these are histories that
people you know often uh you know are
you know many most people that I see in
the crypto space are definitely unaware
of of how you know this trajectory came
to be so I found that super super useful
thank you so much very happy to be here
yeah absolutely
um so before I kind of jump into you
know some of the questions that I have
um I was wondering if you could tell us
a little bit about the you know the
origin of the origin of zodiac the
origin of gnosis safe which I know that
you're deeply you know that's your
project
um and kind of how you how you became
you know enmeshed in these in these
conversations around security and
Community organization
um and blockchain Technologies
sure so it's been a bit of a journey I
studied more philosophy and art and then
over a period of several years I kind of
self-trained as a developer and did a
lot of community organizing around the
distributed Cooperative space and then
when ethereum started really getting
going you know post 2016. um I saw a
kind of interesting Confluence of
different interests of my own but also a
really interesting opportunity for
different types of organizing which I
think was in large part overshadowed by
much of the dominant press narratives
around crypto today
and basically a year after I got more
mesh in the kind of ethereum ecosystem I
joined to gnosis which is the company
I'm still working at today and I've done
strategy and comms there for the last
four years and it's been a really
amazing process to see both how our team
or Now teams have developed as well as
how the space is developed both in
summer is for amazing work in some areas
very less so
um and basically
how gnosis has evolved over time is that
we've built some prediction Market
platforms and general Frameworks that
people could use for event-based assets
and then also there's products like the
nurses safe which has come a long way
since its initially written by rcto to
hold kind of gnosis funds in general and
then gradually was updated when under
through a lot of security processes and
has become pretty much the most trusted
smart contracts or kind of code in the
space and used by many many projects
today many teams you can set it up in 60
minutes just on a website that anyone
can go to
um so knows the safe became one of the
nurses core products almost by accident
um although today all of the design
around it is very intentional and they
used within communities is very
intentional and through my process at
gnosis I was always very interested more
so in the kind of governance aspect of
crypto rather than the kind of
market-based solutions let's say and as
Nexus has evolved and we now have
several products lines there's also a
DEX we maintained an ethereum client as
well and gnosis has become a kind of
generalized decentralized infrastructure
company basically making Tech that goes
across ethereum and probably any other
evm or just technically compatible
chains in the future and from this and
my interest in governance I've had the
opportunity with uh currently called
co-founder Oren McMillan to basically
formulate and bring together a small
team within gnosis to work on gnosis
Guild and zodiac so nurses safe you can
think of as in a presentation like
something like a traditional joint bank
account but one that you can make online
very quickly with a team with an
organization and we were using this
actually for gnosis Dao and initializing
gnosis Dao which is a project that
gnosis does to kind of do community
stewardship of the nurses products and
the nurses Treasury and we realized in
initiating gnosis Dao that there was a
lot of tools that Dows need that
actually aren't felt at the moment so
Owen and I saw this opportunity to
basically build on nurses safe and a
tool set that fundamentally at its core
really allows organizations to evolve so
you have the nurses safe wallet
trusted holds funds you can set it up
really easily
um but I think what is missing in the
Dow space more from the product side
today is that many platforms have kind
of one governance style one roading
style one way to gain membership and
when you set up this platform you're
kind of For Better or Worse locked in
you can change some parameters of this
governance style like how long it takes
about to pass or the kind of required
bond for more secure proposals but the
fundamental kind of governance style
can't necessarily evolve whereas gnosis
Guild tooling and zodiac which we're
calling it is like a collection of tools
and an open standard on which gel tools
can be built and we use the notice safe
at its core but basically put these
tools around the site so that an
organization can evolve over time
they're like living breathing organisms
rather than static you know web 2
platforms and so the Zodiac tool set
allows teams and nurses safe to take a
bunch of different organic Pathways to
how the an organization could evolve so
some of the tools that we've built are
things that um right now with the nurses
say if there's like as I mentioned in
the talk there's like a set amount of
signers given a decision say four out of
six people have to confirm a transaction
for it to be executed using zodiac you
can basically have a tool that allows
any successful proposal to the nurse is
safe to be executed by anyone in the
community not just people who have
signing power on the nurses safe so it's
a way to open organizations and also
open access to resources without having
to change the fundamental underlying
technical infrastructure it just kind of
Builds on it and plug and play and
evolve and we kind of joke about it as
the expansion pack for daos like in the
same way that video games you kind of
have like existing story lines or
existing characters but then later the
developers or even sometimes spurred by
Community storylines the developers come
up with an expansion path that basically
connects different story lines can bring
new areas to the map and involve certain
characters and basically as the
expansion pack for Dao seeking to build
on existing Tech and really Bridge
across different Platforms in a
different organizing practices rather
and keeping it fully in open standard so
that we don't end up with the same kind
of singular monolithic platform that
platform Paradigm that has evolved from
web2
wow I mean this is such amazing work
because I think for me the like I I
agree with you I think that the
governance uh side of crypto
conversations are are much more
interesting than the transactional ones
right now because of the capacity for
Community Organization for transparency
for connection with other people and
then the management of those resources
um you know outside uh outside of gray
area Festival I work uh I work on
technology diplomacy initiatives for the
Canadian government actually and so we
talk a lot about governance and building
tools from the ground up so that they
are built ethically securely
um and uh you know are and they're
rooted in you know human rights but also
in something that is truly valuable for
for every user
um and I'm wondering how you approach
this how do you approach this kind of
ethical development of this governance
protocol right like you know I'm sure
that you want to build something that is
baked in to be something that cannot be
abused or used in improper ways and kind
of what's your tactic and to you know to
make sure that you're
the product that you're developing
um is is rooted in in positive impact
sure so there's a few different ways to
approach those questions and I think all
of them are equally important on a kind
of more technical side I would say that
the tool set that we're building
fundamentally wants to build
organizations that are more accessible
to a broader membership but also
organizations as I said that can evolve
over time so this means that there could
be a vote passed to actually change the
voting style because often you find in
organizations the ability to make
decisions or to decide about the formal
processes by which decisions are made
um is sometimes not possible and you see
this actually as a fundamental pattern
within a lot of existing Tech or social
platforms endows that they're actually
the kind of fundamental governance
processes are very rarely part of the
debate
um so on a technical infrastructure
layer we want to assure that changing an
organization is always possible by
whatever kind of due process or
otherwise and also that it can basically
be ported across platforms and never be
linked to specifically one
I do think that this question of um kind
of the impact framework is much more on
the cultural pattern side so I like to
think of like technical objects as our
technical infrastructures of course
they're not always technical or not only
technical they're also social and
cultural and political in nature and
just being able to see how technical
objects kind of create and have a
feedback with cultural patterns so it's
the question of what type of cultures do
dogs have and I think it varies in terms
of like what is the ethics of the
application of the doubt based on giving
contacts and its end so there isn't
necessarily one prescriptive Norm across
all Dows but by being able to build
technical patterns that are replicated
as cultural patterns like being able to
update the organization's governance
process over time then we can have kind
of soft Norms that allow
in my opinion like an ability to even
kind of talk about cooperatives in the
Dallas space did not exist until we were
able to have tooling that was more
accessible to people because previously
it was um you had to be much more
technically involved in the ecosystem
able to participate so building
technical tools that increase cultural
patterns of participation I would say
information symmetry the kind of
principle that uh what for those at any
tier inside or outside of an
organization information should be made
accessible if it's a kind of public
impact organization that's very
important
um but there isn't necessarily one
prescriptive form just like a collection
of tools for a different set of cultural
patterns
wow I mean that's it it seems like a
it's it's such an exciting space because
it feels really new in a lot of ways and
it's also just really exciting because
the excitement from the community about
the new tools being developed the new
possibilities
um you know if there's so much energy in
in this space at the moment
um uh let me ask you a question from the
other direction
um
so
and it's you know it basically winds up
you know or
boils down to what
um how can more quote unquote
traditional organizations such as gray
area but like what role do they play in
this development because it's fairly
interesting you know we I guess sort of
share a lineage with a lot of these
post-war kind of art and Technology
organizations and it's one of the
antecedents right where the idea is to
um one of the things we're up to is
these collaborations between art and
Technology on organizational or
corporate level
um largely it hasn't worked with some
notable exceptions like they don't you
know it doesn't
that idea of integrating artists into
these traditional companies in San
Francisco I can tell you from people
doing it for you know 30 years now
hasn't worked
um
but the interesting thing is in web 3 it
kind of is Just Happening organically
you have cultural movements that are
pushing technology development and tools
you have those supporting different
sorts of cultural structures and things
like that
so like Beyond
um you know we have the advantage of
being a brick and mortar space that has
like people doing things with physical
things in space but so beyond something
like just okay we have to adopt these
tools to survive in a certain sense if
it's the future you know like get on
board from the other direction what do
you think kind of dows or lacking that
some of the Arts organizations and other
cultural you know what you call it civil
society organizations that are out there
can contribute
from the other direction
sure so I think there's a few
key ways that could be pursued
um I think as I also mentioned in a talk
just like I think
traditional kind of organizational and
kind of almost management consulting
style work within from Dallas and back
and forth basically looking at how some
Dows have that kind of reduced divide
between artists galleries collectors but
also vice versa kind of um role
management or Knowledge Management is
something that institutions do have a
leg up on in terms of just having
internal processes not always very well
but to some extent
um and just having like an idea of what
the institutional knowledge is over time
so basically being able to have this
type of institutional memory and
Gathering and a strong sense of the
archive that I think does are really
starting to grab onto but are still in
their younger phases of understanding
what it means to have like an on-chain
organization but also just one that
preserves its own archive over time like
a kind of mnemonic institution I think
what I would like to see is a
um maybe not across the board with uh
but with many key aligned institutions
is that I think does have not yet gotten
to this stage where they're able to be
kind of multi-organizational networks
and so in the sense that you have many
different institutions and I always ask
like when people come to me saying oh we
want to become a Dao I say well what is
it you're trying to decentralize is it
membership is it access to resources
um and often that that is really much
more implicit than people think it is um
that it seems obvious but it's usually
not the actual first answer and I think
that what organizations could do is kind
of decentralize the network in which
they persist and have stronger linkages
between institutions
so I think that they could play a role
in kind of becoming a node within a
given down Network and include their
members and Their audience in this kind
of network of Institutions that have
become kind of dollified let's say and
have one General kind of higher level
Mission that's shared across them and
that would be super powerful in terms of
building Dao kind of memory Gathering or
institutional archives and also just
increasing Network resilience so short
answer is um participating as
organizations within a larger Dow
network of aligned institutions
it's um it's certainly you know an
exciting possibility
um and you know it's going to be
interesting to see how uh different
institutions are able to adapt and
Implement some of these tools in order
to create more Equitable organizational
and decision-making strategies
um you know amidst all of it you know
this is
a you know I would love to this is kind
of a simple question but I'd love to
know just from your perspective because
there's a lot of rhetoric
um on the internet about that really
goes down a very starkly utopian or very
starkly dystopian pathway and there
doesn't seem to be a lot of discourse
kind of in the middle
um and I'd love to know just from your
perspective what projects or
opportunities are most exciting to you
right now in in this space and what
things are you nervous about or would
you caution folks to be wary of
sure I think what I'm most excited about
is
um a kind of particularly in the context
of this conversation a transfer of
resources which also translates into a
transfer of more institutional power to
artists or potentially to people who
might not traditionally with at least
within the past several decades have had
access to these things as easily of
course there are still questions and
maybe on a to answer on the flip side of
this I think
um being able to address questions of
class and that actual distribution
um have not fully been encompassed and I
think that also potentially what I see
is the more negative side is that as uh
Nathan Schneider recently remarked is
like when you open dial platforms often
the thing that you first see is like a
transaction list or a treasury balance
so basically it's the fact on one side
there's there's many things I could
answer for both but in the context of
this conversation on one side I'm very
excited for this transfer of resources
AKA transfer of institutional power to
artists on the other side I'm very
worried about that becoming the main
form of of institutional power of that
financialization
um and I think that there are things
that consume me this like you know if a
multi-sig open to a group chat rather
than a transaction list
um and really like what is the game if
it's not um
a kind of purely financially Financial
end game like what is the actual
institutional power a few layers beneath
that
um these are I think the most important
questions that like you can dive into
the space and work on today because it's
still we're still so far I think
Upstream from the impact that it will
have that working on it now could have
greater impacts
totally
um that though that's a I I love that
answer
um and I think it's just so thoughtful
and just speaks to how thoughtfully
you're thinking about building these
tools and making them available to
people
um just so everybody knows I drop some
links in the chat to to gnosis and to
the Zodiac project so you can check out
how those work and learn a little bit
more there and there's also the um
there's an article on mirror that's uh
that's important I think for people to
read and the previous one that's on uh
identities and uh inventories yeah we'll
drop all of those um and share them
afterwards as well
um but we have a couple of questions
from the audience um that I'd love to to
bring to your attention one comes from
one of my favorite nft artists at
digital Coleman
um and he asks how do Dows think about
or deal with passiveness or lack of
participation due to time I may be
invested in many spaces but not have
time to be active in them all and I
think this is a really interesting in
question because you know just from my
own experience participating on Twitter
and in Discord rooms with different
kinds of crypto communities it's a lot
of there's a high attention demand
um and I can see that becoming a problem
for folks who can't participate at that
kind of level
sure so yeah this is a pretty common
pattern in this space that a lot of jazz
face like motor apathy
um and many doubts kind of seek to
overcome this through like tokenophomore
which is obviously not the answer
um there's I think that we're seeing a
shift and coming from like initiatives
related to the crypto space but they
also tendency outside like Black Swan
and others which is a group of artists
thinking through basically dials without
blockchain
but the question of um how can you make
kind of governance and events so what if
you had kind of specific votes or other
things kind of become more forthright
and more fun to participate in I
personally think
um and it's this is a bit in a talking a
bit in the essay about like that Dallas
should go more towards like a network of
teams rather than uh kind of thinking
through a whole large-scale organization
that has one flat governance process
across all of the decisions
um because what I want to see is like
more as I say like tacit knowledge or
practical knowledge basically more
people who have experience related to a
specific proposal or a specific
initiative
um be kind of ushered into participating
in that decision specifically and of
course I can participate in others not
to block off in that way but making sure
not that everyone participates in every
proposal but that the people who have
related experience in stake have
discoverability and access to the
proposals that are most related to them
is is to me like the more promising way
to combat uh voter apathy and also to
combat I think what is like a failure of
um thinking through like one overarching
governance to process to fit an entire
token Network
absolutely totally
um that's an interesting way to to
approach this this problem um I mean
this is not something that is you know
relegated to the cryptosis but I think
is relegated to you know it applies to
all spaces of Labor and technology and
social media
um you know and I hope that you know
through decentralized Technologies maybe
we can maybe this can be an opportunity
to push back against some of the demands
of the attention economy
um we have another question for the
audience that comes from Oddball
um and they ask it seems like most Dao's
voting systems are based on majorities
but often we see majorities can be
oppressive to minority voices and
interests have you seen any attempts at
balancing the voting systems to bring
Equity to the underrepresented
sure so there's a few like really
um lower level things that need to be
implemented right now like one for my
team uh that we're I think we're going
to tackle as potentially like zero
knowledge proof voting but basically um
a private voting systems because I mean
there's the majority problem where
there's also a collusion problem
particularly when votes are public that
leads off into kind of majority voting
so that's a really basic level of
infrastructure that needs to become more
common for
um the problem highlighted here there's
also other voting systems like
conviction voting
um which I suppose still still could go
the majority side but the basic premise
behind conviction voting that's
interesting is basically that rather
than having a vote at one time you
continuously signal your preference so
if you say like yes I would like to fund
this community project from our Treasury
and you say yes at the beginning your
vote becomes more powerful over time as
long as you hold that yes position
however potentially something could
change before the decision is made or
potentially its funding on a kind of
longer basis and then you might switch
your vote to no and so you've lost the
kind of strength of your vote and
basically what you have is a kind of
continually signaled preference from
everyone in the organization over time
that is not a plutocratic and is also
not necessarily like a one person one
vote it's like one person one continuous
signal so there's a lot of interesting
granular governance mechanisms that
don't exactly look to like the incident
of voting um that we get a lot of the
kind of what some might call problems
with majority voting
yeah absolutely and I mean thinking
about governments and I mean voting just
makes me think about you know you know
Barry was mentioning the application for
Arts institutions and you know I'm also
interested in kind of the larger policy
side of this conversation you know
um it's diff I think it's difficult for
bureaucratic organization institutions
governing bodies to adapt to technology
in a way that's expedient with the
progress of innovation
um and that's been a age-old problem
since the beginning of since the
beginning of you know uh you know the
invention of the wheel
um and I'm wondering how
like how would you like to see this
technology or how even do you envision
this technology being
included in
like government policy or practice like
how should legislators think about
dealing with these kinds of new
organizational and voting structures
um I think maybe the more interesting
answer is the one on like a five to ten
year outlook and that I do think like
something like protocol governance so
the idea that you have a collection of
assets related to a particular Mission
held by a specific Network and that
decisions about that mission that are
capitalized will be needs will need to
have um be enacted by this network and
that I do think that we'll see this as
an increasing kind of governance form
whether it's on local level you know say
City Dallas or just
um General kind of uh let's say chain
networks
um and that thinking through kind of
protocol governance as a legitimate
political process
um now in order to observe the new types
of cultural patterns it creates in five
to ten years I think is when the the
real um political incorporation can be
done I think right now they're kind of
current legislative Outlook really needs
to have more insight into what's
happening and level
um I also think
I also think like Dao's
um
propose a certain kind of new aspect to
political organizing related to being
able to preserve their memory directly
like through the action of it and that
this is really promising for um
specifically Civic or public
institutions and that um basically those
institutions being able to go to Dallas
now and be like this is our archive this
is our Wiki this is how we do it and
then working together can produce that
type of Incorporation
it's you know it's going to be a long
road and it's going to take a lot of
time and consultation
um you know I think that
um it's you know there's this is such a
complex problem and I think you know
it's going to be a it's going to be one
step at first just to get governing
bodies uh you know National governments
to accept cryptocurrencies this
legitimate currency I know we just saw
this happen in Brazil
um uh but it's it's gonna be it's gonna
be slow it's still early days and I
think you know it's really that's
interesting you know going back to the
title of your taco pre-history of Dallas
really speaking to how this is just the
beginning of something this is you know
a small seed of something that's going
to grow and grow in the coming in the
coming years
um we have one more question from the
audience
um and this person asks how do we reckon
with the need for member scale endows
and the complexity that more members
bring
so I think
um partially related to an earlier
answer of having teams or having kind of
people who have deep practical knowledge
in certain areas in which the Dow
operate and their ability to discover
proposals as well as opportunities
related to their experience and their
objectives
um and really right now I think Dows
need a focus and other internet the
research group is doing a lot of work on
this but basically on information
discoverability because right now it's
quite strewn across chat rooms across
forums
across different governance roads and
different platforms so focusing on
information discoverability so that
there is still coherence for people who
are participating to find the mission
and area they want to participate means
that um
uh not everyone needs to kind of apply
themselves or read all of the
documentation of course as well um
um but basically being able to to have
broadly aligned a pluralism of missions
which people can work on that are
broadly aligned uh will be one way to
address issues of scale and yeah I think
I think right now it's like a promise
that Dallas Dallas will scale and that's
like their main ideological promise and
it's you know what does that mean the
scale it needs to get bigger okay like
that's that's only so interesting I
think like can can they scale to the not
necessarily grow in membership size but
can they um potentially access greater
expertise and decision making or deeper
practical tacit knowledge or kind of
more stakeholders who should be involved
in governance processes and then
basically surface their experience and
also surface better information
Discovery from the Dallas Knowledge
Management and put those two together
that would be the ideal outcome rather
than just kind of increasing an
organization's size let's say
totally oh that's really interesting
that's a problem that I hadn't I hadn't
thought about before you know some of
these groups are getting so huge and I
mean it's you need a whole per you know
groups like Friends with Benefits this
uh social token you know I know that
they like you know hire people to manage
other social media because it's be gone
beyond something that you know uh
anybody and you know a small team can
manage without you know robust support
um we're just about out of time you know
and key I really thank you for your time
Julian Barry do you have any uh last
questions
um for Kia
it's all you Julia
[Laughter]
um I mean this is this is all like
amazing and very much like outside
maybe you can I know you sort of entered
your talk but maybe you could talk a
little bit about your like create your
creative practice and what some of the
outcomes of your like creative work look
like I know you're doing a lot of
writing and
um so I'd be interested to hear how
that's how like your research is
manifesting in a creative output
sure so I think particularly with the
Zodiac projects or the kind of
collection of Dow tools we just launched
was the project that I've had probably
the most autonomy to work on with our
team and it's been really nice to kind
of combine my interests both in like um
kind of symbolic resilient knowledge
systems which is what I consider like I
said I have called uh symbols and also
just my interest in organizing and I
guess less from a social practice lens
but just from personal experience I
think
uh as like an artist in this space
before I always felt like um I needed to
work on the infrastructure to enable the
art that I wanted to make and a lot of
that infrastructure was based on being
able to kind of gather resources for
many groups but also technical
infrastructure for groups to coordinate
and like work together and that I always
thought of it as like building the
infrastructure to make the work and not
making the work but then building the
infrastructure also became like
fundamentally embedded with the work
um and that I see that in the future
like I think writing is probably my
dominant art practice at the moment and
being able to almost kind of create a
Sci-Fi narrative that can be implemented
in practice and actually build tools
that people can use from that I don't
believe that art has to be useful in any
way but I think it is really interesting
when art can create like uh cultural
patterns that other people can use that
are also technical objects and I'm just
I'm really enjoying that at the moment
yeah that's really exciting
I love no that's that's a really
beautiful way to think about it because
I you know I think that a lot of people
like you know you what you what you
mentioned reminded me of you know work
by Travis Smalley for instance who
creates drawing tools and you know his
practice became he was really obsessed
with digital drawing tools and then he
started building his own and that became
the the you know that became a such a
huge part of his practice
um and I think that it's also a really
interesting way to Think Through the
theme of the festival worlding protocol
you know if you you know it's not just
about the output it's how we think
through the processes as well at every
on you know kind of every step of the
way
um so it's really cool to hear
thank you so much Kia for being here I
think we're just out of time we've kept
you longer than we probably should have
so thank you thank you so much yeah
thanks for staying on us nighttime in
Lisbon so yeah get to the party or
whatever yeah of course
thank you all so much and take care
thank you